# Project Background
This is an example ELT pipeline that was adapted from an actual restaraunt franchise company.

The motivation for this pipeline originated with the company's need for processing large quantities of sales information, at scale, in support of their initiatives to open up dozens of new locations throughout their target region. 

The goal was to have access to continuous and accurate metrics on daily restaurants sales in order to inform short and long term business strategy.

The pipeline uses a batch processing architecture with daily scheduled updates and is designed to run on AWS.

# Required Metrics
The company defined the following key metrics, listed in priority order, the pipeline needs to support in order to inform key business decisions.

##### 1. Customer Lifetime Value (CLV)
In order to enable effective prioritization of high-value customers, efficiently plan marketing budgets, and improve retention strategies, the total revenue generated by a given a customer, over the entire lifetime of their relationship with the business, needs to be estimated.

For the purposes of analysis, CLV is categorized as follows:
- High CLV: Top 20% customers
- Medium CLV: Mid 60%
- Low CLV: Bottom 20%

##### 2. Customer Segmentation & Behavior
In support effective targeting of marketing campaigns, information grouping customers based on spending and activity is needed to enable personalized offers and engagement approaches.

For the purposes of analysis, Customer Segmentation & Behavior is categorized as follows, based on Recency, Frequency, and Monetary (RFM) logic:
- VIPs: High R, F, M
- New Customers: Low F, high R
- Churn Risk: Low R, low F
***Ask what corresponds to high/low F,R?***

##### 3. Churn Indicators (non-predictive)
To enable timely retention actions to be taken, a customer activity profile is needed to help marketing identify at-risk customers.

The customer activity profile is defined as follows:
- Days since last order
- Average gap between orders ***Assuming this is the average time gap in days***?
- % change in spend over last N periods ***What is the period length***?

Customers who have not made a purchase in last 45 days are classified “at risk”

##### 4. Sales Trends Monitoring
Expose time-based summaries, to enable the analysis of sales patterns, with the goal of identifying peak periods and resource planning.

Time based summaries are to be aggregated, in terms of revenue, for daily, weekly, and monthly intervals.

Each summary should be broken down by:
- Location
- Menu category (if available)
- Time of day (optional)

##### 5. Loyalty Program Impact
Compare loyalty members vs non-members in terms of spend and engagement in order to evaluate the ROI of the loyalty program.

Customers to be compared on by:
- Average Spend
- Repeat Orders
- Lifetime Value

##### 6. Top-Performing Locations
Identify best and worst-performing store locations to inform decisions on promotions, staffing, or expansion.

Locations to be compared by:
- Total revenue
- Average order value
- Orders per day/week

Locations will be ranked on total revenue

##### 7. Pricing & Discount Effectiveness
Measure how discounts affect revenue and profitability in order optimize pricing strategies.

Orders to be compared by:
- Revenue from discounted orders vs non-discounted
- Number of orders before/after applying discounts